Neil degrass Tyson here your personal
astrophysicist and guess where we are
the jet propulsion Laboratories of the
California Institute of Technology
Caltech this is one of the branches one
of the 10 centers of NASA scattered
across the country this one is in
Pasadena California
[Music]
so we're here in Charles elachi Mission
Control Center he's a former director of
JPL I remember him
and we have the current director of JPL
Lori oh my
good good to see you by we go way back
way back I remember when you were you
were just a baby
s what do you think of our little place
I love what you've done with the place
you it's uh it's really special this is
the we call it the center of the
universe yes uh everything happens right
here right from all over right right is
this also the place where Europa Clipper
data arrive yes this is it this is where
we talk to all our deep space missions
and Europa Clipper is it's just not just
the latest one put it in the list and
there it is oh so important though and I
understand it's it's going to do at
least two gravity assists so that's
that's a thing Mars fly by and then come
back around swing by Earth and then see
you we're off to Jupiter now in the past
we've done Venus flybys as well so why
not Venus for this so this one the
trajectory we've had has been worked on
over many years and that is top people
working oned we literally invented deep
space navigation right here at JPL
[Music]
okay and so what you got here so this is
one of the most exciting new spacecrafts
the Europa Clipper spacecraft at about
uh I think 1th scale uh Europa clip for
when it's got its solar panels open and
it looks like you have one one open to
the right and the others is accordion
over here that's the way uh in launch
configuration that's uh that's how so it
so would be out like this that's right
when it's fully extended that's about
100 ft wow which is basically a
professional basketball court and you
especially need them that large when
you're going that far from the Sun
exactly yeah so tell me how where where
you sending this so this is going to
Jupiter's moon Europa and we love Europa
ice covered Moon a global liquid wateran
great place potentially for life to be
living today so the main question that
this spacecraft and all of the
instruments are working in service to
investigate is whether or not Europa is
habitable we have really good evidence
from the Galileo spacecraft that Europa
has this liquid water ocean but we don't
yet know does that ocean have the full
Suite of elements that are needed to
build life and does Europa have element
you mean the chemistry the chemistry
right you know your carbon oxygen
nitrogen phosphorus sulfur life on Earth
takes about 54 elements from the
periodic table so we want to do an
inventory of that chemistry Life as we
know it totally yes okay just to be
clear so one really cool thing about the
design of the spacecraft here also is
that um in other spacecraft designs like
with the Galileo spacecraft and the
Cassini spacecraft there was always kind
of a a tug and pull between the
different instruments and who got to
look at what when this spacecraft is
going to be orbiting Jupiter and it will
fly by Europa some 45 times some of the
closest approaches are going to be about
25 kilm above europa's surface think
about that that's insane that again gets
at like how brilliant the engineers are
where I mean wait so so it's
fundamentally orbiting Jupiter not
Europa that's right and you're just
having clever orbital
dynamicists uh Pinball Wizard pinball
Wizards I love it skim the surface of
that's where you get your best data
that's exactly right and as we're coming
in on close approach during those
flybys this side of the spacecraft is
going to be looking down at Europa and
so the cameras and the various
spectrometers will be collecting data
all the way through and then on the on
the front end there what we call sort of
the ram Direction we've got some mass
spectrometers that will be collecting
stuff that say is coming off of europa's
surface or ejected from the ice if there
are cracks and plumes erupting and so
all of the instruments will be
collecting data throughout the flybys
and it's just going to be astonishing
like the pictures
alone it's going to take six years for
the spacecraft to get out there the
pictures alone your jaw is going to drop
to the floor will this require a gravity
assist so we're going to do uh uh a Mars
gravity assist an earth gravity assist
thankfully not a Venus gravity assist
because going close to Venus presents
all sorts of thermal challenges also on
the panels you see these little um uh
antennas sticking out that's part of the
ice penetrating radar that will send
waves down into the ice so you're doing
double duty on the solar panels very
clever right cuz I was going to ask if
this does close flybys and it has all
these cameras and
sensors your water is still very deep
under the ice what what the hell are you
looking at and that's where the
magnetometer the ice penetrating radar
and the gravity science of the
spacecraft itself right when you talk
about galaxies Etc you're talking about
massive gravity Wells well even a tiny
moon like Europa which is about the size
of armone creates a little gravity well
and so as Clipper is flying by Europa
it's going to accelerate a bit and
decelerate a bit little red shift blue
shift as we're transmitting uh signals
back and from from that we can figure
out the moment of inertia of Europa and
get at the interior structure and mass
distribution so there's that's a whole
other team it's a whole other team yeah
yeah each of the instruments and
investigations has got a team right
because it's one thing to dig in there
and see where the mass is distributed
it's another thing to have that
distribution of mass affect your
trajectories so that's like a sneaky way
to get in without actually digging in
that's exactly right yeah oh yeah the
Europa clipper
[Music]
so Kevin where are we now we are in the
ocean world's lab I love
it and so you know by ocean worlds we
mean uh of course the Earth with the
ocean that we know and love and need to
protect and and we do some work on
Earth's ocean but then we've got these
worlds like Europa in the outer solar
system that are covered in ice and
beneath their ice shells we've got these
oceans now in our lab here we've got all
this fancy uh machines these therm back
Chambers where we can recreate the
surface conditions of Europa we can
replicate the ice and to the extent that
you understand them that's right we do
experiments based on older data those
experiments in inform future missions
and and so on and so forth and I guess
you tell this looks mad scientist E I
just want you to
say so this is wait can I turn some of
these can I just uh the pumps are off
right now so yes go ahead no just no no
no I'm not touching a thing just blows
up uh so all of this I mean who would
have thought that you would need this
much Hardware to simulate something in
the solar system that's right and so the
reason that we need this much hardware
and all the pumps and everything Europa
has no atmosphere I mean it's got a
whiff of an exosphere to be correct but
um it basically has no atmosphere so
it's the vacuum of space so you get that
check all right you pump it down and
then we're at 100 Kelvin orus 2 180 F
so cool it down super cold pump it cool
it all right pump it cool it and then
europa's surface is bombarded by a hail
storm of electrons and ions and protons
he doesn't literally mean hail okay
that's right hail mean did they tell you
this hail is something else okay okay a
flux
exactly yeah or
fluence and so so stuff coming from this
solar wind no it's it's um a little bit
of solar wind but Jupiter's magnetic
field entrains stuff coming out of
Jupiter's atmosphere and think about IO
okay IO is the inner most large Moon and
IO is the most volcanically active body
in our solar system the stuff spewing
out of IO predominantly sulfur gets
turned into sulfur ions and that bombard
guards the surface of Europa wait so
you're telling me the volcanic eruptions
on iO achieve escape velocity and then
they catalyze chemistry on europa's
Surface so it pollutes the environment
of Jupiter that's right or the sulfur
from aisle may actually help make
europa's ocean habitable ooh volcanism
on one Moon feeding life on another
Moon that's deep deep in there uh
replicates the surface of Europa uh the
best place to find Europa on Earth is
inside that inside this vessel yep now
you don't buy these parts in a catalog
you kind of do yeah yeah you do some
custom orders on the various shapes but
a lot of these companies they uh provide
a catalog and you just order the parts
it's like massively grown up Legos so
Kevin this looks like Europa 101 is that
right in crosssection cross-section here
and it looks like you've got heat
sources down here to make vents but let
me ask the geologist cuz you're the
astronomer why would we think that
Europa would have heat sources inside uh
Europa would be a little bit unique
compared to the earth where it's
residual heat on Europa it's the orbit
around um Jupiter that causes some
stresses and and a source of energy that
melts but would otherwise be ice all the
way down how the heck could an ocean
exist that far out in the solar system
it's way outside the goldilock Zone but
it's not energy from the Sun it's tidal
energy just providing the the the
mechanical deformation the friction the
Heat and it may be strong enough to
power hydrothermal vents here we've got
perhaps a chemical gradient that life
could harness on the seafloor with
Clipper we're going to be observing the
surface of Europa here the the orange
yellow spots these I think we've got
really good confidence now are salt
deposits and in some cases sulfur
deposits from IO
but the window or the ice of Europa
serves as a window into the ocean below
so this would be evidence that this is a
salty ocean provided their cracks for
this to to creep up and manifest exactly
and we still have a lot to understand
about the geology of those cracks and
everything and so one of the key
challenges is how do we um separate out
the exogenous stuff the microm
meteorites from the endogenous stuff the
stuff coming from the ocean I think with
uh experiments and there's some clear
sort of dividing line here right yeah so
this is one hypothesis for how the ice
shell Works where it's got a thick sort
of ductile component to the ice Shell
overlin by a brittle thin ice shell and
so one of the key questions that I'm
particularly interested in is yeah we've
seen the salts spectroscopically on the
surface so we know that materials coming
up from the ocean mixed in with those
salts or coming out of any plumes that
we find might there be carbon compounds
might there be Organics might there be
any whiffs of Life Below you get to know
the chemistry down here without actually
having to to exactly to cut a hole
that's right and go down that's
[Music]
right it is
beautiful so stupid so this chamber
which we endearingly call the Ark of
Europa that's why there's an Indiana
Jones reference right here okay with
those other Chambers we are replicating
the surface chemistry there's another
question that's interesting when you
think about the surface of Europa and
that is what is the shape of the ice at
the large scale it's fractured and
cracked by the tides at the small scale
there's no like there's no wind or rain
or anything on Europa and so at the kind
of meter scale it's all about
sublimation okay water molecules just
popping off into that vacuum of of space
for the most part so just so I
understand when we think of ice
colloquially there's only one kind of
ice but chemically you guys know of ice
manifesting in slightly different
structures right although I would say
geologically geologically chemically
it's still H2O but from a mineral
standpoint minerals how it assembles
into a crystal that's exactly right here
we're doing ice 1H predominantly and
then we're this bar here that simulates
the sun and it can raster back and forth
simulating the dial cycle that daily the
daily Sunday night uh the day night what
the day is on exactly which is world
you're thinking about that's right for
Europa it's 3.55 Earth days okay and so
this light bar goes across over that
time and you have accurately reproduced
the full spectrum of the Sun the photon
uh economy including the UV and the
visible and we don't go so far down in
the UV cuz it gets a little dangerous
down there okay but in terms of heating
and looking at sublimation driven
erosion that's what uh we can doing here
but so let me show you something uh else
let's let's go down to the bottom of the
ocean not europa's ocean yet but Earth's
ocean okay and so that'll take us into
the the green monster here so these
rocks many of these rocks here came from
various hydrothermal vents on Earth so
this is these are from Deep submersible
going to the bottom of the yeah these
are rocks and some of the chemistry that
uh drives life in the de deepest darkest
depths of our ocean and uh and may well
also represent analogous systems on
worlds like Europa or that look like a
hunk of salt of some kind what is that
that was actually carbonate carbonate
okay from Lost City in the Atlantic so
it's like Limestone uh limestone is more
kind of metamorphosed you know higher
temperature pressure so this is kind of
like freshly precipitated uh so take a a
whiff of this that's what the origin of
life might uh smell
like little sulfury nice bouquet you
know something might crawl out of here
one day if ziplock only knew how you
using their bags many
[Music]
layers so now we are in part of our
ocean worlds lab but here we're focused
on robotic systems and instrumentation
to explore Earth's ocean and cryosphere
with an eye and a bridge towards someday
flying things like our buoyant Rover for
under ice exploration on a world like
Europa so we got authentic Engineers
here that's right that's what so so
scientists we come up with a crazy ideas
Engineers are like wait we got to build
that and and so that's true with
clippers
that's true with uh this amazing robot
that uh that we call Brewery short bre
buoyant Rover for under exploration on
Earth life loves these chemical
gradients one chemical gradient that's
of great interest geologically
biochemically Etc is the Ice Water
interface and that could be true for
Europa also there might be life at the
bottom of the ice sh right there right
there exactly so when would this fly so
this would not fly to Europa for decades
and decades to come MH but in the
meantime we're preparing to take it up
to Alaska to put it under ice in Alaska
and study methane coming out of the
permafrost and the basic idea of this
vehicle so these wheels if you want to
hold this you can be careful it's spiky
and sharp this looks dangerous it looks
like a ninja wheel it's spiky to get
grip on the surface so this chassis here
floats and then you know here at JPL
we're really good at making Rovers Mars
rovers Etc this is an Under Ice Rover it
thinks that the surface is the ice and
then with its two wheels one of which
you have it roves along the underside of
the ice and this tail has
instrumentation and this is kind of a
what we call a torque tail to allow it
to to drive forward or backward and then
image what so it's floating that gives
it its position in the vertical depth of
the ocean and this and because it's
floating it has buoyancy it'll put
pressure on these spikes up against
that's exactly the The Ice that's
[Music]
there welcome Neil yes thank you thank
you you're the eel man oh I'm not the
eel man this the eel team team I am one
of them one of the E people EXA one of
those many e people yes yes yes so our
dream is to enable the exploration of
subsurface ocean of Inc there are
natural opening of the
ice oh yeah of course there's a
cre the on Andel this you're not going
to go dig a hole you're going to use a
hole that's already there exactly that's
the point it's where these vents are
coming out I gu yes it's like there
there inviting us oh it's calling
calling to us exactly right and it's
just nine Au is away yes okay why not
it's our backyard backyard yes our
backyard what we conceive is the snake
robot okay right called eels exobiology
extent life surveyor M that going to
land on incos explore the surface finds
the best entury point to the vent go
down down all the way to the ocean the
sub ice ocean exactly yes where we can
find life
maybe so what would be a sign of Life
something swimming up saying hi or you
going to do chemistry and maybe find
microbes that's a great timing to invite
our science read Morgan K hi hello good
great to meet you good uhhuh we are
hoping to include a variety of payloads
that could both look for chemical
signatures of life as well as potential
Mor morphology bio signatures those
would be like cells or bits of cells um
potentially some metabolic indicators as
well if we find food or things that
microbes have left behind those would be
the types of Bio signatures we'd look
for so what's the largest organism you
would conceivably find because on Earth
we went billions of years with just
microbes and only later did we get big
so but that's been around for billions
of years as well it's a great question
typically we look to examples of Earth
as you know to try to model and give
guesses of what might exist and for us
for places like Enceladus we look to
hydrothermal events down at our seafloor
there you see more than just microbes we
find rich communities that include you
know shellfish and right crabby looking
things yeah yeah and and those uh what
are those those tube worms those can
live to be 200 years old did you know
that no I didn't know that amazing okay
all of those capacities to test for life
are they going to be built into the eel
that is the idea that each module of
eels could include a science payload or
it could include other things that the
robot needs to move and sense its
environment wow we're not there yet but
with extra few billion bucks yes we can
we can so we built the robot right build
robot and brought to the place that is
closest to in and where where is that
it's Glacier right asasa Glacier in
Canada we went there exactly a year ago
we test it on ice but then we teste it
in the crass so so two arms right just P
Arms like this push the walls against
each other to support its own weight
like K and use the screws to go down or
up oh because it's not neutrally buoyant
here so otherwise it would just fall and
get stuck water so you control I like
that you you has to support it own
weight there a jet coming out right
right and this is how happy we were when
we made look at that
everybody okay all right you want to see
itday all night oh you have a real
version of one I've only seen pictures
right behind you okay that's a little
creepy I'm going have nightmares of this
thing turning and chasing me down the
street bite you it doesn't bite so it's
controlling itself uh Mike Pon uh has
basically asked our robot to come here
and the robot has woken up it's has no
idea what the world looks like it's
getting live data from its sensors and
it's making decisions about watch
Travers you can say it it's AI just say
it it's AI exactly fine right now in our
Maz Rovers if anything goes wrong we
just break and ask home for help but on
Enceladus when you're going down into
the vents uh the the plume forces are
constantly pushing you up so you need to
push into the walls with sufficient
amount of to grip to grip so that you
don't get blown up
and the robot is solving that problem in
real time can it go sideways it it can
we'll actually invite you to drive the
robot your that's a little scary for me
it looks like it's it's assessing who we
are so how long realistically would this
be about this length for the eventual
Enceladus Mission it it would be roughly
the size but it's modular it's like one
modules that repeated 11 times very
scalable yes according to the mission if
our destination
takes a decade to reach you don't want
to wait for a century to get the right
science right so the whole point of eels
is versatility so that you can directly
explore these unknown environments in
one shot first mission uh the big
challenge is you have to deal with a lot
of uncertainty because you are going in
the unknown and you're very limited in
bandwidth in terms of communication so
there's a lot of Need for AI so once you
land there the robot cannot just live
stream all the video data so it it needs
to have a lot of reasoning to make all
the decisions on its own so Rob is going
to show how we've integrated a VM Vision
language model to bring some of these
reasoning capabilities to the robot hey
eels can you go ahead and introduce
yourself hello I'm eels the extant
exobiology life surveyor I'm a snake
like robot designed to explore planets
and Rings especially Enceladus my
mission is to navigate navate tough
terrains collect ice and water samples
and look for signs of life I move using
screw driven modules and have various
sensors to help me navigate right now
I'm at NASA's jet propulsion laboratory
preparing for my mission my operators
the team from JPL control me remotely if
you have any tasks or questions just let
me know go ahead and scan the room so
this is now getting to that action part
where there's an online agent that's
running getting commands from chat GPT
and like talking into the command center
so scanning the room is the full 3d
space you're going to see it po up here
on the screen see it's using wi
R and it's constructing a map of
everything it could see in here we call
that Cobra
pose I love it we're going to tap into
the onboard sensors like the camera and
we're going to have eels describe what
it sees in the room all right eels go
ahead and describe what you see in the
room the room has several people working
around tables and Equipment there are
computers monitors and office equipment
key points people are 3 m away a desk is
4 M away a monitor is 3.5 M away a cable
is 2 m away and a blackbox is 1 me away
let me know if you need more details can
we ask it if it sees anything
alive oh could yeah we can good do you
see anything that's alive yes there are
several people in the room gathered
around the table and
[Applause]
[Music]